# Onda Protocol
On-chain community moderated forums

## Programs
This project contains the following programs:
- [onda_compression](https://github.com/onda-protocol/onda-program-library/tree/main/programs/onda-compression) `onda1FgCsQMC4zBhsjGjKoHDgGp6q7pK48HQaVXf28d`
- [onda_namespace](https://github.com/onda-protocol/onda-program-library/tree/main/programs/onda-namespace) `ona67gSygPUkb34U5sgPZK7AkgXDJJrNoi5nrraEHvE`
- [onda_awards](https://github.com/onda-protocol/onda-program-library/tree/main/programs/onda-awards) `AwrdSLTcfNkVSARz8YoNYcVhknD7oxm7t3EqyYZ9bPK5`
- [onda_moderation](https://github.com/onda-protocol/onda-program-library/tree/main/programs/onda-moderation) (TBD)
- [onda_profile](https://github.com/onda-protocol/onda-program-library/tree/main/programs/onda-profile) `ondapcq2qXTSynRieMCE9BjRsZ2XALEEZZunkwbhCPF`

___

### Onda Compression
Onda compression is similar to the Bubblegum program, but built specifically for compressed forum entries. Like Bubblegum, Onda Compression makes use of concurrent merkle-trees via the Solana Account Compression program. It supports various post types as well as comments. The on-chain leaf is generated by hashing the entry data args, which much follow the correct schema, together with other important metadata (`author`, `created_at`, `edited_at`) to ensure the on-chain state of an entry is fully verifiable.

The program is also built to support moderation and token-gating. The `ForumConfig` authority has the power to delete entries from the tree and enforce specific write restrictions via the `Gate` struct.

### Onda Namespace
Assigns a unique namespace with associated metadata to a merkle-tree and ensures that each merkle-tree can only occupy one namespace.

### Onda Awards
Onda Awards is built on top of Bubblegum and provides a simple interface for creating cNFT Awards and minting them to a forum entry. While the forum entryId itself does not exist on-chain, this does not prevent the entryId from "virtually" holding the cNFTs. Onda Awards ensures composability with the virtual address by delegating the Award pda on mint.

### Onda Profile 
A simple and temporary program to allow users to set an name and a pfp. This program will likely be deprecated and replaced by a shared social-graph.

